docs/en/posts/luminosite-jeedom-esp8266.md, before:

---
title: Luminosité sous Jeedom via un ESP8266
date: 2016-04-15
description: Cet article met en avant la mise en place d'un capteur TSL2561 et d'un ESP8266 afin de récupérer la luminosité sous Jeedom. La communication des données se fera à travers un broker MQTT.
tags:
  - ESP8266
  - NodeMCU
  - Jeedom
---

## Introduction

Cet article met en avant la mise en place d'un capteur TSL2561 et d'un ESP8266 afin de récupérer la luminosité sous Jeedom.

La communication des données se fera à travers un broker MQTT.

## Prérequis

Pour réaliser ce montage, il vous faut :

- 1 [ESP8266](http://www.ebay.fr/itm/ESP8266-Serial-WIFI-Wireless-TransceiveR-Module-Send-Receive-LWIP-AP-STA-/271935772447?hash=item3f50a2971f:g:QEYAAOSw9N1VrfAJ);
- 1 capteur [TSL2561](http://www.ebay.fr/itm/TSL2561-Luminosity-Sensor-Breakout-infrared-Light-Sensor-integrating-sensor-/271789914195?hash=item3f47f0f853:g:bMIAAOSwNSxU8R-w);
- 1 régulateur [LF33CV](http://www.ebay.fr/itm/LF33CV-Regulateur-TO-220-3V3-0-5A-STM-lot-de-5-ou-10-/181701724632?var=&hash=item2a4e4449d8:m:mzy0HUMgtVw3B4YO5VCN2-g) (5v vers 3.3v);
- 1 résistance [1kΩ](http://www.ebay.fr/itm/resistance-1-4w-0-25w-1-10-100-1K-10K-100K-ohms-/171088290472) (pull-up).

**Attention !**  
Le code est en LUA et nécessite donc d'avoir l'ESP8266 avec le firmware nodemcu.

## Câblage

[En attente du capteur TSL2561 sous Fritzing]

## Code

[Github](https://github.com/Wifsimster/tsl2561-mqtt)

## Principe

Le principe est le suivant :

1. L'ESP créé un client MQTT avec un id unique;
2. Il se connecte au broker MQTT;
3. A chaque changement de valeur du capteur TSL2561, le client MQTT publie les données sur un topic particulier;
4. Le broker MQTT reçoit les données et les publie pour chaque client ayant souscrit à ce topic.

## Jeedom

Il vous faut tout d'abord installer le plugin gratuit MQTT dans Jeedom.

Dès lors que votre ESP8266 publiera sur le broker MQTT, le plugin Jeedom ajoutera automatiquement le device TSL2561 :

![TSL2561 MQTT](/images/tsl2561_mqtt.png)

![TSL2561 Device](/images/tsl2561_device.png)

## Résultat

![TSL2561 Jeedom](/images/tsl2561_jeedom.png)

Commit message:

Update project configuration and dependencies: enhance .gitignore to exclude build artifacts, update package.json and package-lock.json for new dependencies, and refactor VitePress configuration for improved site structure and language support. Additionally, update blog post titles and descriptions for consistency across English and French versions.

docs/en/posts/luminosite-jeedom-esp8266.md, after:

---
title: Brightness under Jeedom via ESP8266
date: 2016-04-15
description: This article highlights the setup of a TSL2561 sensor and an ESP8266 to retrieve brightness under Jeedom. Data communication will be through an MQTT broker.
tags:
  - ESP8266
  - NodeMCU
  - Jeedom
---

## Introduction

This article highlights the setup of a TSL2561 sensor and an ESP8266 to retrieve brightness under Jeedom.

Data communication will be through an MQTT broker.

## Prerequisites

To build this setup, you will need:

- 1 [ESP8266](http://www.ebay.fr/itm/ESP8266-Serial-WIFI-Wireless-TransceiveR-Module-Send-Receive-LWIP-AP-STA-/271935772447?hash=item3f50a2971f:g:QEYAAOSw9N1VrfAJ);
- 1 [TSL2561](http://www.ebay.fr/itm/TSL2561-Luminosity-Sensor-Breakout-infrared-Light-Sensor-integrating-sensor-/271789914195?hash=item3f47f0f853:g:bMIAAOSwNSxU8R-w) sensor;
- 1 [LF33CV](http://www.ebay.fr/itm/LF33CV-Regulateur-TO-220-3V3-0-5A-STM-lot-de-5-ou-10-/181701724632?var=&hash=item2a4e4449d8:m:mzy0HUMgtVw3B4YO5VCN2-g) regulator (5v to 3.3v);
- 1 [1kΩ](http://www.ebay.fr/itm/resistance-1-4w-0-25w-1-10-100-1K-10K-100K-ohms-/171088290472) resistor (pull-up).

**Warning!**  
The code is in LUA and therefore requires the ESP8266 to have the nodemcu firmware.

## Wiring

[Waiting for TSL2561 sensor under Fritzing]

## Code

[Github](https://github.com/Wifsimster/tsl2561-mqtt)

## Principle

The principle is as follows:

1. The ESP creates an MQTT client with a unique id;
2. It connects to the MQTT broker;
3. On each value change of the TSL2561 sensor, the MQTT client publishes the data on a specific topic;
4. The MQTT broker receives the data and publishes it for each client that has subscribed to this topic.

## Jeedom

You must first install the free MQTT plugin in Jeedom.

Once your ESP8266 publishes on the MQTT broker, the Jeedom plugin will automatically add the TSL2561 device:

![TSL2561 MQTT](/images/tsl2561_mqtt.png)

![TSL2561 Device](/images/tsl2561_device.png)

## Result

![TSL2561 Jeedom](/images/tsl2561_jeedom.png)
